init post (#8350)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2022-08-16-supabase-js-v2.mdx

---

> title: 'Supabase.js v2 release candidate'

Author: ```suggestion
title: 'supabase-js v2 Release Candidate'
```

> description: First peek of Supabase-js v2, which focuses on quality-of-life improvements for developers.

Author: ```suggestion
description: First peek of supabase-js v2, which focuses on quality-of-life improvements for developers.
```

### Data functions return minimal by default

The `insert()`, `update()`, and `upsert()` functions now require you to explicitly append `select()` if you want the data to be returned.

```ts
// v2
const { data } = await supabase.from('messages').insert({ id: 1, message: 'Hello world' }).select() // select is now explicitly required

// v1
const { data } = await supabase.from('messages').insert({ id: 1, message: 'Hello world' }) // insert would also "select()"
```

This was another common question in our GitHub Discussions. While the idea of automatically returning data is great,
developers often turn on Row Level Security (which is great), and then they forget to add a `select` Policy.
It is a bit surprising that you need to add a `select` policy to do an `insert`, so we opted for the “principle of least surprise”.
If you don't append `select()`, the `data` value will be an empty object: `{}`.

<details>

<summary>ℹ️ Differences from v1</summary>

Previously you could pass a `returning: 'minimal'` option to the `insert()`, `update()`, and
`upsert()` statements. We've now made this the default behaviour.

</details>

## Multiplayer Sneak Peek

> There is a new `channel()` interface which we have released in v2.

Author: ```suggestion
There is a new `channel()` interface which are releasing in v2.
```
